discription of the project
Nowadays computers are used on huge scales worldwide. Use these devices may be in
the form of Desktop, Laptop and Mobile phones. As these all are electronic devices and
runs on electric power and batteries, it causes harm to an environment directly as well
as indirectly. In all of this Major problem is cause by the Electronic waste specially in IT
sector.
Electronic waste, or e-waste, refers to all items of electrical and electronic equipment
(EEE) and its parts that have been discarded by its owner as waste without the intent of
re-use (Step Initiative 2014). E-waste is also referred to as WEEE (Waste Electrical and
Electronic Equipment), electronic waste or e-scrap in different regions and under
different circumstances in the world.
Electronic waste (e-waste) in the IT sector can include a wide range of electronic

equipment, such as:
 Computers: Desktops, laptops,
servers, and Keyboards and mouse
Speakers and headphones Webcams
and microphones External hard drives
and USB drives Monitors and projectors
Scanners and printers Graphics tablets
and pens Docking stations and USB
hubs CD/DVD drives and media players
Network interface cards and adapters.

Reuse of Keyboard

5

 Communication equipment: Phones, routers, modems, and switches.
 Office equipment: Printers, copiers, and fax machines.
 Medical equipment: Imaging machines, monitors, and diagnostic equipment.
 Industrial equipment: Control systems, sensors, and other electronic
components.
 Batteries: Rechargeable batteries used in laptops, phones, and other electronic
devices.
 Cables and cords: Various cables and cords that connect electronic devices.

In India electronic waste is emerging as a serious public health and environmental issue
in India. India is the "Third largest electronic waste producer in the world";
approximately 2 million tons of e-waste are generated annually and an undisclosed
amount of e-waste is imported from other countries around the world.
Annually, computer devices account for nearly 70% of e-waste, 12% comes from the
telecom sector, 8% from
medical equipment and 7%
from electric equipment. The
government, public sector
companies, and private sector
companies generate nearly
75% of electronic waste, with
the contribution of individual
household being only 16%.

E-waste is a popular, informal
name for electronic products
nearing the end of their "useful life." Computers, televisions, VCRs, stereos, copiers,
and fax machines are common electronic products. Many of these products can be
reused, refurbished, or recycled. There is an upgradation done to this E-waste garbage
list which includes gadgets like smartphone, tablets, laptops, video game consoles,

Reuse of Keyboard

6
cameras and many more. India had 1.012 billion active mobile connections in January
2018. Every year the number is growing exponentially.
According to ASSOCHAM, an industrial body in India the, Compound Annual Growth
Rate of electronic waste is 30%. With changing consumer behaviour and rapid
economic growth, ASSOCHAM estimates that India will generate 5.2 million tonnes of
e-waste by 2020.

While e-waste recycling is a source of income for many people in India, it also posesnumerous health and environmental risks. More than 95% of India's e-waste is illegally
recycled by informal waste pickers called kabadiwalas or raddiwalas which is “Junk
Dealer” and “Scrap Dealer ". These workers operate independently, outside of any
formal organization which makes enforcing e-waste regulations difficult-to-impossible.
Recyclers often rely on rudimentary recycling techniques that can release toxic
pollutants into the surrounding area. The release of toxic pollutants associated with
crude e-waste recycling can have far reaching, irreversible consequences.
Along with mentioned issues above there are many other issues related with these
electronic equipment's. Green computing
addresses these issues with the words
"Reduce, Reuse, Recycle".
Reduce: We should limit the number of
purchases that we make in the first
place. So, for example, we might limit our
household to a single computer.
Reuse: We should reuse items as much as possible before replacing them. For
example, it generally makes more environmental sense to update our computer rather
than get rid of it and buy a new one. However, if we replace our computer, we should
ensure that it, or its components, is reused. Many charitable organizations welcome
donations of second-hand computers.

Reuse of Keyboard

7
Recycle: We should ensure that items or their components are put to some new
purpose as much as possible. If our computer is not fit for reuse as is, we can donate it
to one of several organizations which will refurbish it or recycle its components.
The Project is made by me is related to Reuse of Electronic Equipment (Keyboard).
The keyboard being used in this project is part of E-waste due to broken buttons of the
keyboard but the inside of the keyboard isuseful to be reused into a game controller (As
a Gamepad) .The Purpose of this project is to create awareness about the reusability of